---
layout: post
title: Blog Post 4
---
Reflections on our project: https://github.com/philhuang74/Pic16BProject

Overall, what did you achieve in your project? 
What are two aspects of your project that you are especially proud of? 
What are two things you would suggest doing to further improve your project? (You are not responsible for doing those things.) 
How does what you achieved compare to what you set out to do in your proposal? (if you didn't complete everything in your proposal, that's fine!)
What are three things you learned from the experience of completing your project? Data analysis techniques? Python packages? Git + GitHub? Etc? 
How will your experience completing this project will help you in your future studies or career? Please be as specific as possible. 

  For our project, we managed to create a housing webpage where we produced a dataframe of housing zip code suggestions and predicted housing price trend graphs given user inputs on a webpage on their housing preference. In our presentation, we mentioned some areas of improvement in which we could create a more efficient way of producing the prediction graphs since it took a long time especially for dataframes that contained a lot of different zip code recommendations. This was because each time, images were being created one by one in the static images folder in our webpage, and every time a new user input was inputted, it would delete the contents in that image folder and generate new photos. This would be a long process if the user preference returned a dataframe with 1000 zip codes. Therefore, after our project presentation, I improved the code by creating a sql database of all the possible combinations of graphs in our database so that the graphs will be produced very efficiently and fast when the user inputs their housing preferences. Also, since the database was created where the graphs are created by using facebook prophet, this made it possible for the user to run this webpage without downloading facebook prophet on their computer, which makes it easier for the user. One thing I really enjoyed in this class was learning how to create a website using flask. This really made it possible for us to present the database our group has created, and also the findings and graphs we have created.

  Some aspects for improvement in our project is to create hyperlinks in our dataframe so that one could click on a link for a row and get the prediction graph. Right now, even though it instantly produces graphs for the user, it lists them in order. So if a dataframe with 1000 rows is returned, it will have 1000 housing trend graphs. The user will not be able to find the graph for the zip code fast as they would have to scroll through a long webpage. (this improvement has been made). Another part for improvement is that we want to create a discussion bar where users that are logged in can talk about California housing. We have a submit tab that might be used in the future if we were to create a neural network that can classify California houses from houses in other states.  

In our project proposal, we stated that we wanted to create a cleaned database of info on California Housing, predict housing prices, and create graphs for our results. We achieved that. What we changed during the course of working on our project is we initially wanted to create our own neural network for predicting housing price trends, but since our data was a time series, we turned to facebook prophet to help us predict housing prices. 

  Three things I learned from this project is how to create user inputs and return error messages if the survey is not filled out. Another thing I learned was how to use facebook prophet to create prediction graphs for time series data. I also learned that the nice thing about github is that we can retrieve our old code. When working together, sometimes the code might suddenly break, and being able to go to the github history of our project and retrieve an earlier working version was a life saver. Lastly, I learned to create a webpage that can display graphs from a sql database.
  
  Having completed this project, I learned how to create a website using flask, which I think is a good skill to have. Being able to work with Jonathan and Rhea helped me learn about the importance of teamwork and communication, as it would have been hard to create this whole project myself. Lastly, I want to thank Professor Chodrow for teaching us this quarter. I learned about how to use Github to collaborate with others, and I think this is something that will help me in the future.
  