---
layout: post
title: A Path that Visits Every Vertex Once given a DAG
---

The algorithm assumes that the vertices of the graph are numbered 0 to n-1 which corresponds to the vertices 1 to n. (python is 0 indexed) 

Main Idea: The main idea of the algorithm is that since we know the graph G is a directed acyclic graph by assumption, we know there exists a topological sort. A topological sort is an ordering of vertices of G such that every edge points from an earlier vertex to a later vertex. We want to check if there is a path that visits every vertex exactly once. Therefore by finding the topological sort, we can check if the first vertex of the topological sort is able to visit the second vertex of the topological sort sinc and keep checking until the (n-1)th vertex. We return true if the i-1th vertex can visit the ith vertex in the topological sort for i = 1,...,n. If at any point the i-1th vertex cannot visit the ith vertex, we return false.

PseudoCode: We will modify the depth first search algorithm. We have an array "visited" that contains true and false for every vertex in the graph that have been visited. We explore every vertex that has not yet been visited. The Explore function remains the same where we set the vertex in visited array to true everytime we visit a vertex, and keep exploring its neighboring vertices that have not yet been visited. For each Explore call on a vertex v, we make a Postvisit(G,v) call after all the neighboring vertices that have not been visited has been explored by the Explore(G, visited,u) function. This Postvist(G,v) function has a global array called post and a global variable called post_counter. Every time we postvisit a vertex, we increment the post_counter by 1 and update the post_counter value in the global array post. This gives us the order we postvisit the vertices. We showed in class that the reverse of the order in which we postvisit is a valid topological sort. Therefore, we use the Sort function that reverses the order of the array and get the topological sort of the vertices. For every vertex in the topological sort, we check if anoy of the neighboring vertices equals the next vertex in the topological sort. If so, we break. Otherwise we continue to search. At the end, if the next vertex in the topological sort is not found, we return false and there isn't a path that visits all the vertices exactly once. If for i = 1,...,n the (i-1)th vertex can find the ith vertex in the topological sort, we return true.

Running Time: O(V+E)

Proof of Correctness: We want to find a path where every vertex is visited exactly once. Given two arbitrary vertex x and y, if x comes before y in the topological sort, then that means there might be an edge that points x directly to y. (x -> y) In the case that we want a path that visits every vertex exactly once, that means each vertex in the topological sort must point to the vertex that comes after it. For example, if a topological sort of A, B, C has a path that visits each vertex exactly once, then it must be that A points to B and B points to C. C can not point to B or A and B can not point to A because of the topological sort property. Therefore, we know that we can check that there is a edge from A to B and a edge from B to C in order to confirm a path that visits every vertex in the graph exactly once exists. Note A can point to C because this satisfies the topological sort property, but it doesn't matter because what we care about is that there exists a path where every vertex is visited exactly once, and therefore we know that for this to be possible A must point to B because it is the only vertex that can point to B in our example. 

Base Case: one vertex is a path that visits every vertex once. 
Lets say all the vertices up to k in our topological sort has been visited once. That means there is a path from the first vertex in topological sort to the kth vertex where all the vertices are visited exactly once.
Then for the next (k+1)th vertex in our topological sort, we know that the only vertex that can reach (k+1)th vertex while mainatining this path that visits every vertex once is k. If it was a vertex other than k, and k is not pointing towards k+1, then there won't be a path from the first vertex to k+1 that visits every vertex once. Therefore, we can have other vertices that are not k that point towards k+1, but what really matters is that k has an edge that points to k+1 for this path of visiting every vertex once to be continued. 
By induction, after checking if there is an edge in the neighbors of k that is the (k+1)th vertex for k = 1,..., n-1 in our topological sort, then there is a path that visits every vertex exactly once.

Analysis of Running Time: Topological sort is DFS plus postvisits and reversing an array. We know that DFS takes O(V+E) time. We take V postvisits, with each postvisit taking O(1) time. Reversing the order of a length V array is O(V). For each vertex, we look at each of its neighbors, that takes O(V+E) time. Therefore, our total runttime is O(V+E).


```python
graph = {
    0 : [3,2],
    1 : [2,5],
    2 : [3],
    3 : [],
    4 : [],
    5 : [4]
}
```


```python
global post 
post = [0 for _ in range(len(graph))]
global post_counter
post_counter = 0

def Postvisit(G,v):
    global post_counter 
    post_counter += 1
    global post
    post[v] = post_counter
    
def revSort(G):
    A = [0 for _ in range(len(G))]
    for v in G:
        A[len(G)-post[v]] = v
    return A
```


```python
def Explore(G,visited,v):
    visited[v] = True
    for u in G[v]:
        if not visited[u]:
            Explore(G,visited,u)
    Postvisit(G,v)
    
def DFS(G):
    visited = [False for _ in range(len(G))]
    for v in G:
        if not visited[v]:
            Explore(G,visited,v)
```


```python
def allVertex(G):
    DFS(G)
    topSort = revSort(G) #First we topologically sort the graph G
    
    for node in range(len(topSort)-1): #Loops through all the nodes - 1
        found = False
        for neighbors in G[node]: #for all neighbors of each node
            if neighbors == topSort[node+1]: #check if the next topoligal sort node is a neighbor
                found = True
                break #break and go to the next node
        if found == False:
            return False

    return True
```


```python
DFS(graph)
```


```python
revSort(graph)
```




    [1, 5, 4, 0, 2, 3]



This gives a correct topological sort.


```python
global post 
post = [0 for _ in range(len(graph))]
global post_counter
post_counter = 0

allVertex(graph)
```




    False



Now we will give an example of a graph that visits every vertex once.


```python
graph = {
    0 : [1],
    1 : [2],
    2 : [3],
    3 : [],
}
```


```python
global post 
post = [0 for _ in range(len(graph))]
global post_counter
post_counter = 0

def Postvisit(G,v):
    global post_counter 
    post_counter += 1
    global post
    post[v] = post_counter
def revSort(G):
    A = [0 for _ in range(len(G))]
    for v in G:
        A[len(G)-post[v]]=v
    return A
```


```python
DFS(graph)
```


```python
revSort(graph)
```




    [0, 1, 2, 3]




```python
global post 
post = [0 for _ in range(len(graph))]
global post_counter
post_counter = 0

allVertex(graph)
```




    True


