---
layout: post
title: Majority Element in Array (LeetCode 229) 
---


Problem: Given an array A of length n, find all elements of A that occur in A at least ceiling of n/4 times. Return "no" if no such elements exist, otherwise it should return all majority elements (in any order).

Counting Frequent Elements

Main Idea:
The idea of this solution is to use a divide and conquer strategy. We will divide the array into smaller arrays until the length of the array is of length one, then check if the majority elements in the divided arrays occur more than n/4 times when combined. At the end of the recursion, we return a array of all the elements that occur more than n/4 times. 

PseudoCode:
We use a divide and conquer strategy for this problem. We first divide array A into two equal halves left and right. We keep dividing until the array A can not be divided any further. When length of A equals 1, we know we are at the base case and we return A since an element in a length 1 array must occur more than ()n=1)//4 = 0 times. Since we know that the arrays maj_left and maj_right will contain the most frequent elements (elements that occur more than n/4 times) from the array left and right, we can just search through those most frequent elements and see if it occurs more than n/4 times in the combined array maj_left + maj_right. If it occurs more than n/4 times, and it is not already in the array M (majority elements), we will append that element into M and return M when we have iterated through all the elements in max_left and max_right. 

Running Time: O(nlog(n)) is the runtime 

Proof of Correctness: We divide the array A into two halves, namely left and right, and recursively call the most frequent elements in left and right. We then merge the arrays maj_left and maj_right together. For each iteration of the elements in maj_left and maj_right, we count the number of times that element appears in the array A and make sure that it is not already in the current array M, as we want each element in M to be unique. We then append this element if it occurs more than n/4 times. The correctness of the algorithm comes from the fact that if a majority exists in the array, then it must exist in either the left or right halves as well. Therefore as we keep comibining the fragmented arrays and checking if majority element exists, the answer will be consistent. There are two possible cases, either A has a majority element or not. If it does not, then at some point combining the fragments will not have a majority element. If A has majority element, then by checking its fragments and combining until we get to A, we will eventually go through an iteration where a subarray of A's has a majority element e that occurs more than n/4 times. 
 
Analysis of Running Time:
Since we divide the array by two until it reaches the base case where each partition of the array is of length one, the height of the tree is log2(n). For each level, we iterate through only a few elements that occur more than n/4 times in left and right (namely the elements in maj_left and maj_right), and therefore this number of operations is a constant c. Counting the number of elements takes O(n) time since we have to search through the entire array. Therefore, we do O(cn) work, but since we can ignore constants, we have done O(n) work on each level. Therefore, this algorithm is O(nlog(n)). Another way to see this is by using the Master's Theorem. We know we split the array in half and recurse on both halves, doing O(n) work. So T(n) = 2T(n/2)+O(n) implies O(nlogn). 


```python
def count(A,x):
    count = 0
    for element in A:
        if element == x:
            count+=1
    return count

def FindMostFrequent(A):
    #Base Case
    if len(A) == 1:
        return A
    
    n = len(A)
    M = [] #Contains majority elements
    
    #Divide array A into left and right
    left = A[0:n//2]
    right = A[(n//2)::]
    
    #Recursively call the FindMostFrequent() function on the two partitioned arrays left and right
    maj_left = FindMostFrequent(left)
    maj_right = FindMostFrequent(right)
    
    #After we hit the base case, we want to check if the majority elements in left and right are still
    #majority elements in array maj_left + maj_right. Return the majority elements M in maj_left + maj_right
    for x in maj_left + maj_right:
        if count(A,x) > n/4 and x not in M:
            M.append(x)
    return M

def Elements(A):
    if A == []:
        return "no"
    else:
        return A
```


```python
Elements(FindMostFrequent([5,3,2,1,4,1,6,7]))
```




    'no'




```python
Elements(FindMostFrequent([5,3,5,1,3,5]))
```




    [5, 3]




```python
Elements(FindMostFrequent([5,3,2,1,4,1,6,7,4,4,4,4,4,4,4,4]))
```




    [4]



This problem is also on LeetCode. The question on LeetCode asks for majority elements that occur more than n/3 times. This is a simple change from the algorithm above, where we change count(A,x) > n/4 to count(A,x) > n/3.

LeetCode 229: Majority Element II


```python
def count(A,x):
    count = 0
    for element in A:
        if element == x:
            count+=1
    return count

def FindMostFrequent(A):
    if len(A) == 1:
        return A
    n = len(A)
    M = []
    left = A[0:n//2]
    right = A[(n//2)::]
    maj_left = FindMostFrequent(left)
    maj_right = FindMostFrequent(right)
    for x in maj_left + maj_right:
        if count(A,x) > n/3 and x not in M:
            M.append(x)
    return M

def Elements(A):
    if A == []:
        return "no"
    else:
        return A
```


```python
A = [3,2,3]
FindMostFrequent(A)
```




    [3]




```python
A = [1]
FindMostFrequent(A)
```




    [1]




```python
A = [1,2]
FindMostFrequent(A)
```




    [1, 2]


